With over 66 million passengers a year passing
through LA airport it should be a gateway
experience for the city and state.
But, in the past, if your journey took you
through the Tom Bradley International terminal
the experience has been far from uplifting.
Thankfully that's now all changed with the
opening of a new terminal building designed
by Curtis Fentress of Fentress Architects.
The starting point for the design was a wave-like
structure reminiscent of the city's famous
beaches. In response, Fentress has created
a distinctive arching sectional roofline which
also references the arches of the iconic LAX
control tower.
The statistics behind the new Tom Bradley
are impressive.
At nearly 112,000 square metres, it's double
the size of the previous terminal and is the
largest public works program in the history
of Los Angeles.
It contains 15,500 tonnes of steel, and the
steel structure allows for a column-free interior
that rises to height of 31m at the central
Great Hall.
It also has double the processing capacity
of the old terminal, with the ability to handle
4000 people an hour through Federal Inspection
Services. And that should add up to 8.6 million
passengers passing comfortably through the
terminal annually.
Of course, these days, airport terminals are
more than just a place where passengers transit.
They've become a destination revenue source
in their own right.
The new Tom Bradley centre is no exception.
The enormous electronic billboards inside
are one revenue source ... as well as the
shopping pavilions and food and beverage outlets
that have been incorporated into spaces created
by the impressive interior architecture.
With the new terminal now fully operational,
international passengers passing through LAX
can expect an infinitely more pleasant and
relaxed experience to start or end their journey.